---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: #good_quesh
date: 2022-01-27
labels:
---

#           good_quesh
##          Due diligence? 

When a question is asked intelligently with full context of the issue and 
 troubleshooting attempts, said question would most likely be answered in a quick 
and timely manner of return, yield results that could more effectively help the 
progression/process of troubleshooting towards a resolution or at least a step 
forward after every response/supply. What should be implemented while requesting 
assistance in a forum/portal/discussion platform website such as Stack Overflow, 
is evidently the error, logs (if applicable), all supporting raw code (if 
applicable) printed error codes in their entirety, version, model, make, year, 
setup, configuration, patch, tech specifications, anything really pertinent to 
helping the readers or otherwise software engineers better assess the issue and 
continue to help you from where you left off in troubleshooting. A great example 
which can be found at <a href=”https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44084846/cannot-connect-to-the-docker-daemon-on-macos”>Cannot connect to the Docker daemon on macOS<a/> , shows an organized approach to collectively gathering one’s thoughts,
and proof/evidence of errors/issues, and clearly/concisely interjecting a 
competent question for post/submission onto Stack Overflow for community support.

##    STFW
            
On another note, when asking a fairly novice type of question of which 
the user could have most likely have found an answer for from RTFM or even 
probably by some digging/searching on the WWW generally, this user could have 
easily have learned how to fix his problem on his own. If anything, the syntax 
could have honestly been too similar or obvious for the user to pick up right 
away. A question with funny replies to an example on Stack Overflow is as 
follows: <a href=”https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1642028/what-is-the-operator-in-c-c/8909176#8909176”> What is the "-->" operator in C/C++?<a/> . 
In this post you will find the user is simply asking the relevancy of the usage 
of "-->" in the context of a while loop. One of the comments to the post follows:

<blockquote>“’Or for something completely different... x slides to 0. Not so 
mathematical, but... every picture paints a thousand words...’ - Dr. Gut”<footer> 

##    Sample Code from user
```ruby
while (x --\
            \
             \
              \
               > 0)
     printf("%d ", x); 
```

##    Overall
            
After seeing some pretty hilarious examples while looking up questions on 
Stack Overflow, I noticed some of the most down voted questions and found may 
questions were essentially a waste of time for readers that had replied, so much 
so that even Stack Overflow seems to lock questions/answers on posts that have 
seem to cause arguments, etc. 
