---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Structural Integrity"
date: 2022-05-12
labels:
    - Software Engineering
---

#          Structural Integrity

During this class we took part in understanding and applying Open Source Software Development, by way of implementing various user interface frameworks including react semantic user interface and underscore java script. Both of which we had used in tandem throughout multiple occasions in this course to enable functionality and compatibility of databases, arrays, functions, classes object-oriented programing and furthermore, overall cohesion of different types of code to ensure compatibility of attributes, in essentially storing data/information to manipulate or return for users and admins. Now these Open source software development tools are as noted, open to the public and universally adopted and used in conjunction with the importation of the necessary elements or resources needed to be able to use functional programing in pragmatic way. 

Whilst coding in groups practicing teamwork in coding standards, we utilized the universal standards of coding to include pseudo code for easier comprehension of what the code is actually doing every step of the way within the code for the team to be aware of and create an environment for efficiency when collaborating code together. Some of the developmental environments we have used are GitHub, and IntelliJ, which is part of jet brains. GitHub is a code collaborating website where you can publish code on the internet from IntelliJ, which is a graphical user interface, integrated development environment to program code files with locally on your workstation. Configuration Management was important to use in order to connect files to directory pathways to import and export specific configurations to maximize the capabilities inherent with external and internal resources.  

Towards the end of the course, we also had a conversation about ethics in software engineering related to artificial intelligence being used to identify people to determine if they were criminals or wanted, etc. based on information stored of everyone. Part of the problems that arose during our talk was the fact that the accuracy for misidentifying people with cameras that correlate with facial recognition information was not always perfect, and instead somewhat racially profiling people and assuming people to be someone they were not, and in this case guilty before proving them innocent. Another failure was derived from the concern that everyone’s information would be a part of the database without legal and ethical informed of consent. Lastly, the information stored would be susceptible to being hacked, and or sold for profit as it would belong to the government of company storing and therefore sharing the information of the public. 
