---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Radical Gratification
date: 2022-02-17
labels:
---

#           Radical Gratification

###    What have you learned that you didn’t know before about computer science?

There seems to be a lot more to computer science from what I initially assumed prior to starting this degree. I have learned that some courses since to be extremely packed and intensively involved with respect to the workload, and essentially designed specifically on the idea of self-learning or teaching mostly by yourself. Due diligence is absolutely required and even more so recommended/encouraged to therefore survive some of the preliminary information computer science core major elements of the degree plan per the university catalog. So far, in my Software Engineering class, we have covered what one might consider a very large array of tools, techniques, coding standards, software, and interconnect ability/compatibility in terms of tethering several aspects of learning material into fruition of practical hands-on learning. 
    
The athletic software engineering approach or rather incremental development pedagogy towards learning for students has benefited my understanding, however hard, due to my first term in the program from outside of computer science majoring, from a interested prospect student to a true firm believer that this degree should undoubtedly set me on the right path towards employment and better yet hopefully brighter horizons as I transition in the military as a cyber network defender with on the next year or so. Having this computer science background alongside with my other degrees in networking telecommunications and information security assurance should complement nicely with computer science and again lead the path forward hand in hand with getting into the field of cyber in the long run. 

###    Did you discover Interests, Career Goals, Courses, or Opportunities that you didn’t know about before? If so, what were they?

I did discover several of many types of outlets to become more efficient in the craft of computer science, as I found some hackathons similar to the National Security Agency code Breaker, and the already RadGrad available option of participating in the National Cyber League from with both I had the honor of being a part of twice during my time at Honolulu community
 College as well as University of Hawaii West Oahu. I was excited to find out that some of the opportunities come with stipends. Found out that google has a summer code camp, there are serval options of teaching kids, and or other students in general, not to mention groups/clubs with other local professionals in organizations that come together to find solutions for local problems right here in our very own back yard of all places. 

###    What do you think of RadGrad? Do you think it will help you have a better degree experience? Why or why not?

Some of the courses I found on <a href=”https://radgrad2.ics.hawaii.edu/”>"RadGrad"</a>  
 I am not necessarily sure will be taught for sure and when, or even by who exactly. I do wish that RadGrad would provide more detail for students to better plan out their degree years out in advance for the ICS programing, as opposed to planning rough drafts in the academic notes of uh star terms, on account of archived past years of professors/courses. I have found it quite difficult to account for if a class would indeed be taught and register for said class with enough confidence to forward plan. I do believe, I would find it difficult to handle a ICS degree load and balance that with myICE and still graduate on time, especially for students that need to work and attend school at the same time. We could benefit from vocational training formatted courses where state/federal grant money could adequately pay students for learning and helps us give back to our community through solving real-life on-going pertinent  issues in a way that the students would not have to worry about their financial needs and still make a great impact in their wallet/community/education trinity. Living in Hawaii is expensive, so is tuition. Unfortunately for most students, more likely the employment they currently have if any has nothing to do with computer science. But that’s where RadGrad helps to guide students to the possibilities as endless as they are. Having a great computer science related job as a student under state/federal grant with substantial financial gain and computer science experience in tandem harmony has monumental cause and effect advantages.


